agility.md, before:

# [Digital.ai Agility](https://docs.digital.ai/bundle/agility-onlinehelp/page/Content/Digital.ai_Agility/Digital.ai_Agility.htm)

- [Agility downloads page](https://docs.digital.ai/bundle/agility-onlinehelp/page/Content/Digital.ai_Agility_Release_Notes/Release-Notes-and-Downloads.htm)
- [Agility latest download](https://go.versionone.com/GetLatestUltimate)
<br><br>
- [SSO](https://docs.digital.ai/bundle/agility-onlinehelp/page/Content/Digital.ai_Agility/On-Premise_Single_Sign-On.htm)
  - [SSO for SaaS](https://docs.digital.ai/bundle/agility-onlinehelp/page/Content/Digital.ai_Agility/How_to_start_the_SSO_(Single_Sign-On)_Process_for_Hosted_Customers_(SaaS).htm)
- [SAML](https://docs.digital.ai/bundle/agility-onlinehelp/page/Content/DeveloperLibrary/SAML_SSO_Overview.htm)
<br><br>
- [OIDC for keycloak on digital.ai release](https://docs.digital.ai/bundle/devops-release-version-v.22.0/page/release/concept/release-oidc-with-keycloak.html)

## Logs

- Analytics: `C:\ProgramData\VersionOne\Analytics\setup.log`
- DataMart: `C:\ProgramData\VersionOne\DatamartLoader\setup.log`
- General exceptions: `C:\ProgramData\VersionOne\Exceptions`

## Upgrades

1. Post notification alerting users that service may be down.
2. Snapshot the Agility instance.
3. Snapshot the Agility database (versionone).
4. RDP onto Agility server.
5. [Download the latest Agility release.](https://go.versionone.com/GetLatestUltimate)
6. Disable Shibboleth Service Provider.
   - Edit the file in `C:\opt\shibboleth-sp\etc\shibboleth\shibboleth2.xml` and disable Shibboleth on the RequestMapper paths.
   - Set `RequireSession` to `false` and then restart Shibboleth (`shibd_Default` in Windows Services):
     ```xml
     <Path name="Agility" authType="shibboleth" requireSession="false">
     ```
   - This is done to allow a regular login page to be presented at example.domain.com/Agility so the Analytics Service can install correctly. Otherwise Shibboleth will attempt to redirect to the authentication service and prevent Analytics from installing correctly.
   - Also see [Shibboleth RequestMatter docs](https://shibboleth.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SP3/pages/2065335006/HowToRequestMap)
7. Follow the installation guide PDF in the downloaded release archive.
   - NOTE: Upgrade order is `Agility`, then `DataMart`, then `Analytics`
   - Requires:
     - DB password
     - DB username
     - Integration code
8. Re-enable Shibboleth Service Provider.
   - Edit the file in `C:\opt\shibboleth-sp\etc\shibboleth\shibboleth2.xml` and enable Shibboleth on the RequestMapper paths.
   - Set `RequireSession` to `true` and then restart Shibboleth (`shibd_Default` in Windows Services):
     ```xml
     <Path name="Agility" authType="shibboleth" requireSession="true">
     ```
9. Test service connectivity.
<br><br>
TROUBLESHOOTING
- In the IIS manager, ensure Agility is running under `Application Pools` (start it if stopped)
- Restart IIS with cmd.exe: `iisreset /restart`
- Restart Shibboleth daemon shibd.exe from services

Commit message:

agility: add license update process

agility.md, after:

# [Digital.ai Agility](https://docs.digital.ai/bundle/agility-onlinehelp/page/Content/Digital.ai_Agility/Digital.ai_Agility.htm)

- [Agility downloads page](https://docs.digital.ai/bundle/agility-onlinehelp/page/Content/Digital.ai_Agility_Release_Notes/Release-Notes-and-Downloads.htm)
- [Agility latest download](https://go.versionone.com/GetLatestUltimate)
<br><br>
- [SSO](https://docs.digital.ai/bundle/agility-onlinehelp/page/Content/Digital.ai_Agility/On-Premise_Single_Sign-On.htm)
  - [SSO for SaaS](https://docs.digital.ai/bundle/agility-onlinehelp/page/Content/Digital.ai_Agility/How_to_start_the_SSO_(Single_Sign-On)_Process_for_Hosted_Customers_(SaaS).htm)
- [SAML](https://docs.digital.ai/bundle/agility-onlinehelp/page/Content/DeveloperLibrary/SAML_SSO_Overview.htm)
<br><br>
- [OIDC for keycloak on digital.ai release](https://docs.digital.ai/bundle/devops-release-version-v.22.0/page/release/concept/release-oidc-with-keycloak.html)

## Logs

- Analytics: `C:\ProgramData\VersionOne\Analytics\setup.log`
- DataMart: `C:\ProgramData\VersionOne\DatamartLoader\setup.log`
- General exceptions: `C:\ProgramData\VersionOne\Exceptions`

## License updates

1. RDP onto Agility server.
2. Go to `C:\inetpub\wwwroot\Agility\bin`.
3. Replace the `.lic` file.
4. Restarting server isn't necessary. New license will be used automatically.

## Upgrades

1. Post notification alerting users that service may be down.
2. Snapshot the Agility instance.
3. Snapshot the Agility database (versionone).
4. RDP onto Agility server.
5. [Download the latest Agility release.](https://go.versionone.com/GetLatestUltimate)
6. Disable Shibboleth Service Provider.
   - Edit the file in `C:\opt\shibboleth-sp\etc\shibboleth\shibboleth2.xml` and disable Shibboleth on the RequestMapper paths.
   - Set `RequireSession` to `false` and then restart Shibboleth (`shibd_Default` in Windows Services):
     ```xml
     <Path name="Agility" authType="shibboleth" requireSession="false">
     ```
   - This is done to allow a regular login page to be presented at example.domain.com/Agility so the Analytics Service can install correctly. Otherwise Shibboleth will attempt to redirect to the authentication service and prevent Analytics from installing correctly.
   - Also see [Shibboleth RequestMatter docs](https://shibboleth.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SP3/pages/2065335006/HowToRequestMap)
7. Follow the installation guide PDF in the downloaded release archive.
   - NOTE: Upgrade order is `Agility`, then `DataMart`, then `Analytics`
   - Requires:
     - DB password
     - DB username
     - Integration code
8. Re-enable Shibboleth Service Provider.
   - Edit the file in `C:\opt\shibboleth-sp\etc\shibboleth\shibboleth2.xml` and enable Shibboleth on the RequestMapper paths.
   - Set `RequireSession` to `true` and then restart Shibboleth (`shibd_Default` in Windows Services):
     ```xml
     <Path name="Agility" authType="shibboleth" requireSession="true">
     ```
9. Test service connectivity.
<br><br>
TROUBLESHOOTING
- In the IIS manager, ensure Agility is running under `Application Pools` (start it if stopped)
- Restart IIS with cmd.exe: `iisreset /restart`
- Restart Shibboleth daemon shibd.exe from services
