awk.md, before:


## [AWK](https://www.gnu.org/software/gawk/manual/gawk.html)

- **See also**:
  - [AWK one-liners explained](https://catonmat.net/awk-one-liners-explained-part-one)
  - [AWK cheat sheet](https://catonmat.net/ftp/awk.cheat.sheet.pdf)

### Examples

Comment out all lines in which the first non-whitespace string is "alias".
```bash
awk
  '{
    if ($0 ~ /^[[:space:]]*alias/)
      print "#",$0
    else
      print $0
  }' \
  file.sh
```

Print all interactive users from */etc/passwd*:
```bash
awk -F: \
  '
  # Look for lines that do NOT contain the following:
    # "nologin"
    # First non-whitespace character is a "#" (^\s*#)
    # Last non-whitespace character is a ":" (:\s*$)
  # If the user UID is 0 (i.e. root) or over 1000, print the username.
  !/nologin|^\s*#|:\s*$/ && ($3==0||$3>1000) \
  {print $1}' \
  /etc/passwd

awk -F: '!/nologin|^\s*#|:$/ && ($3==0||$3>1000){print $1}' /etc/passwd
```

List pacman packages by size:
```bash
pacman -Qi | \
  awk -F: \
    '/^Name/ {name=$2}
     /^Installed/ {gsub(/ /,"");size=$2; print size,name}' \
  | sort -h`

pacman -Qi | awk -F: '/^Name/ {name=$2} /^Installed/ {gsub(/ /,"");size=$2; print size,name}' | sort -h`
```

Get weather:
```bash
curl -s wttr.in | \
  awk \
    '{if(NR==3) weather1=$4}
     {if(NR==3) weather2=$5}
     /\.\./ {if(NR==4) print weather1, weather2, "("$5, $6")"}'
```

Reformat a log file:
```bash
gawk -F$'\t' \
  '{
    # Convert Unix epoch to a human-readable timestamp.
    # This function is available only in GNU awk.
    time=strftime("%m-%d-%Y %H:%M:%S", $1)
    source=$3
    url=$6
    http_method=$7
    http_code=$8
    access=$16
    group=$19

    # Use the printf function so the field alignment can be adjusted.
    printf ("%s | %s %s | %-7s %-3s | %s | %s\n", time, group, source, http_method, http_code, access, url)
  }' access.log
```

- `yum history | awk -F"|" '($2~"<ansible>" && $4~"U"){print $0}'` = Print lines that contain *\<ansible\>* in column 2 and *U* in column 4
- `awk 'NF>0 {blank=0} NF==0 {blank++} blank < 2'`           = Remove consecutive blank lines, emulates `cat -s`.
<br><br>
- `awk '/foo/ {gsub(/abc/,""); gsub(/[0-9]/,""); print $1}'` = Print 1st field of lines that contain *foo*, remove *abc* and all numbers from output.
- `awk '/([0-9]{1,3}\.){1,3}[0-9]{1,3}/ {print $3}'`         = Print 3rd field of lines that contain IP-address-like strings in input.
- `ip -4 -br a | awk '!/127\.0\.0/ {gsub(/\/[0-9]{1,2}/,""); print $3}'` = Print the primary IP address, without the subnet mask.
<br><br>
- `awk -F: '/:[1-4][0-9]{3}/ {print $6}' /etc/passwd`     = Print the home directories of all interactive users.
- `awk -F: '!/\/sbin\/nologin/ {print $1}' /etc/passwd`   = Print users who don't use */sbin/nologin* as their shell.
<br><br>
- `awk 'NR>2'`          = Print all but the first two lines.
- `awk 'NR==1'`         = Print the first line, emulates `head -1`.
- `awk 'NF>0'`          = Remove blank lines quickly (i.e. print lines with at least one field).
- `awk 'END{print}'`    = Print the last line, emaultes `tail -1` (*{print}* is the same as *{print $0}*).
- `awk 'END{print NR}'` = Print the number of lines, emaultes `wc -l`.
- `awk 'length($0)>80'` = Print lines longer than 80 characters.

### Variables

- **See also:**
  - [Shell variables in an awk script](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19075671/how-do-i-use-shell-variables-in-an-awk-script)
<br><br>
- `FS`  = Input field separator regular expression, a \<SPACE\> by default.
- `NF`  = The number of fields in the current record.
- `NR`  = The ordinal number of the current record from the start of input.
- `OFS` = The print statement output field separator, \<SPACE\> by default.
- `ORS` = The print statement output record separator, a \<NEWLINE\> by default.
<br><br>
- Pass shell variable to awk:
```
myvar="Hello world!"
awk -v myvar="${myvar}" 'BEGIN {print myvar}'`
```


---
## PATTERN MATCHING

### Globbing

- `*`      = Zero or more of any character.
- `?`      = Exactly one of any character.
- `[xyz]`  = Any characters within set or within range.
- `[!xyz]` = Negation of xyz (any characters NOT in the set of *xyz*).

### Regex

- **See also:**
  - `man 7 regex`
  - [Regex tester](https://www.regextester.com/)
  - [RexEgg](http://www.rexegg.com)

#### Examples

- `^[^#]*foobar.*` = Match lines containing *foobar*, exclude commented lines

#### Operators

- `~` = Regex matching operator (`awk '$1 ~ /J/'` = Print field *1* if it contains a *J*.).
- `!~` = Negation regex matching operator. (`awk '$1 !~ /J/'` = Print field *1* if it doesn't contain a *J*.).

#### Patterns

- `.`       = Any character.
- `[abc…]`  = Anything within brackets (*a*, *b*, or *c*).
- `[0-9]`   = Range within brackets (digits *0* through *9*, inclusive).
- `[^123…]` = Anything NOT within brackets.
- `\`       = Escape next character.
- `(   )`   = Pattern grouping (`([0-9]{1,3}\.){5}` = 5 instances of 1-3 of any digit, followed by a period.).
- `\1`      = Backreference to group #1.
<br><br>
- `(?!foo)`  = Negative lookahead, matches any subsequent string that is NOT *foo* (similar to `[^ ]`, except for a string rather than a range).
  - `grep -P '/documents/github-repos/(?!my-repos)'` = Matches all directories under *github-repos* EXCEPT *my-repos*.

#### Quantifiers

- `^`     = Match pattern at start.
- `$`     = Match pattern at end.
- `a|b`   = Alternation of patterns (*a* or *b*).
- `*`     = Zero or more of pattern.
- `+`     = One or more of pattern.
- `?`     = Zero or one of pattern.
- Bounds: basic regex requires `\{ \}`, extended regex uses `{ }`
  - `{1,5}` = One to five of pattern.
  - `{3,}`  = At least three of pattern.
  - `{,2}`  = At most three of pattern.
  - `{1}`   = Exactly one of pattern.

| Character classes | Similar to      | GNU synonym | *Only valid within brackets e.g [[:xyz:]]*        |
|-------------------|-----------------|-------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| `[:upper:]`       | `[A-Z]`         |             | Uppercase alphabetic characters                   |
| `[:lower:]`       | `[a-z]`         |             | Lowercase alphabetic characters                   |
| `[:digit:]`       | `[0-9]`         |             | Numeric characters                                |
| `[:alpha:]`       | `[A-Za-z]`      |             | Alphabetic characters                             |
| `[:alnum:]`       | `[A-Za-z0-9]`   | `\w`        | Alphanumeric characters                           |
| `[:blank:]`       | `[ \t]`         |             | Space and tab characters ONLY                     |
| `[:space:]`       | `[ \t\n\r\f\v]` | `\s`        | Whitespace characters (space, tab, formfeed, etc.)|
| `[:cntrl:]`       |                 |             | Control characters                                |
| `[:graph:]`       | `[^ [:cntrl:]]` |             | Graphical characters (non-control characters)     |
| `[:print:]`       | `[[:graph:] ]`  |             | Graphical characters and space                    |
| `[:punct:]`       |      |       | Punctuation characters (non-letter, digit, control char, or space) |

| GNU-style character classes |           |
|------|----------------------------------|
| `\s` | Whitespace characters            |
| `\S` | Non-whitespace characters        |
| `\w` | letters, digits, underscores     |
| `\W` | Non-letters, digits, underscores |
| `\f` | Form-feed                        |
| `\r` | Carriage return                  |
| `\n` | Newline                          |
| `\t` | Tab                              |

Commit message:

awk: add git-status example

awk.md, after:


## [AWK](https://www.gnu.org/software/gawk/manual/gawk.html)

- **See also**:
  - [AWK one-liners explained](https://catonmat.net/awk-one-liners-explained-part-one)
  - [AWK cheat sheet](https://catonmat.net/ftp/awk.cheat.sheet.pdf)

### Examples

Comment out all lines in which the first non-whitespace string is "alias".
```bash
awk
  '{
    if ($0 ~ /^[[:space:]]*alias/)
      print "#",$0
    else
      print $0
  }' \
  file.sh
```

Print all interactive users from */etc/passwd*:
```bash
awk -F: \
  '
  # Look for lines that do NOT contain the following:
    # "nologin"
    # First non-whitespace character is a "#" (^\s*#)
    # Last non-whitespace character is a ":" (:\s*$)
  # If the user UID is 0 (i.e. root) or over 1000, print the username.
  !/nologin|^\s*#|:\s*$/ && ($3==0||$3>1000) \
  {print $1}' \
  /etc/passwd

awk -F: '!/nologin|^\s*#|:$/ && ($3==0||$3>1000){print $1}' /etc/passwd
```

List pacman packages by size:
```bash
pacman -Qi | \
  awk -F: \
    '/^Name/ {name=$2}
     /^Installed/ {gsub(/ /,"");size=$2; print size,name}' \
  | sort -h`

pacman -Qi | awk -F: '/^Name/ {name=$2} /^Installed/ {gsub(/ /,"");size=$2; print size,name}' | sort -h`
```

Get weather:
```bash
curl -s wttr.in | \
  awk \
    '{if(NR==3) weather1=$4}
     {if(NR==3) weather2=$5}
     /\.\./ {if(NR==4) print weather1, weather2, "("$5, $6")"}'
```

Reformat a log file:
```bash
gawk -F$'\t' \
  '{
    # Convert Unix epoch to a human-readable timestamp.
    # This function is available only in GNU awk.
    time=strftime("%m-%d-%Y %H:%M:%S", $1)
    source=$3
    url=$6
    http_method=$7
    http_code=$8
    access=$16
    group=$19

    # Use the printf function so the field alignment can be adjusted.
    printf ("%s | %s %s | %-7s %-3s | %s | %s\n", time, group, source, http_method, http_code, access, url)
  }' access.log
```

- `git status 2>/dev/null | awk '{if(NR==2) {gsub(/[^0-9]/,""); print $0}}'` = Print the number of commits to push/pull from the current repo.
- `yum history | awk -F"|" '($2~"<ansible>" && $4~"U"){print $0}'` = Print lines that contain *\<ansible\>* in column 2 and *U* in column 4
- `awk 'NF>0 {blank=0} NF==0 {blank++} blank < 2'`           = Remove consecutive blank lines, emulates `cat -s`.
<br><br>
- `awk '/foo/ {gsub(/abc/,""); gsub(/[0-9]/,""); print $1}'` = Print 1st field of lines that contain *foo*, remove *abc* and all numbers from output.
- `awk '/([0-9]{1,3}\.){1,3}[0-9]{1,3}/ {print $3}'`         = Print 3rd field of lines that contain IP-address-like strings in input.
- `ip -4 -br a | awk '!/127\.0\.0/ {gsub(/\/[0-9]{1,2}/,""); print $3}'` = Print the primary IP address, without the subnet mask.
<br><br>
- `awk -F: '/:[1-4][0-9]{3}/ {print $6}' /etc/passwd`     = Print the home directories of all interactive users.
- `awk -F: '!/\/sbin\/nologin/ {print $1}' /etc/passwd`   = Print users who don't use */sbin/nologin* as their shell.
<br><br>
- `awk 'NR>2'`          = Print all but the first two lines.
- `awk 'NR==1'`         = Print the first line, emulates `head -1`.
- `awk 'NF>0'`          = Remove blank lines quickly (i.e. print lines with at least one field).
- `awk 'END{print}'`    = Print the last line, emaultes `tail -1` (*{print}* is the same as *{print $0}*).
- `awk 'END{print NR}'` = Print the number of lines, emaultes `wc -l`.
- `awk 'length($0)>80'` = Print lines longer than 80 characters.

### Variables

- **See also:**
  - [Shell variables in an awk script](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19075671/how-do-i-use-shell-variables-in-an-awk-script)
<br><br>
- `FS`  = Input field separator regular expression, a \<SPACE\> by default.
- `NF`  = The number of fields in the current record.
- `NR`  = The ordinal number of the current record from the start of input.
- `OFS` = The print statement output field separator, \<SPACE\> by default.
- `ORS` = The print statement output record separator, a \<NEWLINE\> by default.
<br><br>
- Pass shell variable to awk:
```
myvar="Hello world!"
awk -v myvar="${myvar}" 'BEGIN {print myvar}'`
```


---
## PATTERN MATCHING

### Globbing

- `*`      = Zero or more of any character.
- `?`      = Exactly one of any character.
- `[xyz]`  = Any characters within set or within range.
- `[!xyz]` = Negation of xyz (any characters NOT in the set of *xyz*).

### Regex

- **See also:**
  - `man 7 regex`
  - [Regex tester](https://www.regextester.com/)
  - [RexEgg](http://www.rexegg.com)

#### Examples

- `^[^#]*foobar.*` = Match lines containing *foobar*, exclude commented lines

#### Operators

- `~` = Regex matching operator (`awk '$1 ~ /J/'` = Print field *1* if it contains a *J*.).
- `!~` = Negation regex matching operator. (`awk '$1 !~ /J/'` = Print field *1* if it doesn't contain a *J*.).

#### Patterns

- `.`       = Any character.
- `[abc…]`  = Anything within brackets (*a*, *b*, or *c*).
- `[0-9]`   = Range within brackets (digits *0* through *9*, inclusive).
- `[^123…]` = Anything NOT within brackets.
- `\`       = Escape next character.
- `(   )`   = Pattern grouping (`([0-9]{1,3}\.){5}` = 5 instances of 1-3 of any digit, followed by a period.).
- `\1`      = Backreference to group #1.
<br><br>
- `(?!foo)`  = Negative lookahead, matches any subsequent string that is NOT *foo* (similar to `[^ ]`, except for a string rather than a range).
  - `grep -P '/documents/github-repos/(?!my-repos)'` = Matches all directories under *github-repos* EXCEPT *my-repos*.

#### Quantifiers

- `^`     = Match pattern at start.
- `$`     = Match pattern at end.
- `a|b`   = Alternation of patterns (*a* or *b*).
- `*`     = Zero or more of pattern.
- `+`     = One or more of pattern.
- `?`     = Zero or one of pattern.
- Bounds: basic regex requires `\{ \}`, extended regex uses `{ }`
  - `{1,5}` = One to five of pattern.
  - `{3,}`  = At least three of pattern.
  - `{,2}`  = At most three of pattern.
  - `{1}`   = Exactly one of pattern.

| Character classes | Similar to      | GNU synonym | *Only valid within brackets e.g [[:xyz:]]*        |
|-------------------|-----------------|-------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| `[:upper:]`       | `[A-Z]`         |             | Uppercase alphabetic characters                   |
| `[:lower:]`       | `[a-z]`         |             | Lowercase alphabetic characters                   |
| `[:digit:]`       | `[0-9]`         |             | Numeric characters                                |
| `[:alpha:]`       | `[A-Za-z]`      |             | Alphabetic characters                             |
| `[:alnum:]`       | `[A-Za-z0-9]`   | `\w`        | Alphanumeric characters                           |
| `[:blank:]`       | `[ \t]`         |             | Space and tab characters ONLY                     |
| `[:space:]`       | `[ \t\n\r\f\v]` | `\s`        | Whitespace characters (space, tab, formfeed, etc.)|
| `[:cntrl:]`       |                 |             | Control characters                                |
| `[:graph:]`       | `[^ [:cntrl:]]` |             | Graphical characters (non-control characters)     |
| `[:print:]`       | `[[:graph:] ]`  |             | Graphical characters and space                    |
| `[:punct:]`       |      |       | Punctuation characters (non-letter, digit, control char, or space) |

| GNU-style character classes |           |
|------|----------------------------------|
| `\s` | Whitespace characters            |
| `\S` | Non-whitespace characters        |
| `\w` | letters, digits, underscores     |
| `\W` | Non-letters, digits, underscores |
| `\f` | Form-feed                        |
| `\r` | Carriage return                  |
| `\n` | Newline                          |
| `\t` | Tab                              |
