directory-services.md, before:

## ACTIVE DIRECTORY

### `ldapsearch` command

`ldapsearch -LLL -x -w [password] -H ldaps://[servername].[domain] -D "[authenticating-user].[domain]" "mail=[user-email]"`

#### ssh key authentication

run script in /etc/ssh/sshd_config under line "AuthorizedKeysCommand" to authenticate users using their domain
account's public key, stored in the 'comment' field within their domain account's account properties.

```bash
#!/bin/bash
USER=$(echo "$1" | cut -f 1 -d "@")
PASS=$(cat ./passwordfile)

ldapsearch -u -LLL -x -w $PASS \
-D "ldapsearch.svc@[DOMAIN]" \
-H "ldaps://[DOMAIN-CONTROLLER-NAME].[DOMAIN]" \
'(sAMAccountName='"$USER"')' 'comment' \
| sed -n '/^ /{H;d};/comment:/x;$g;s/\n *//g;s/comment: //gp'
```

### integration

https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/html-single/windows_integration_guide/#sssd-ad-proc 


`net ads testjoin` 
`net ads info`
`net ads status`

`kinit`

---
integrate Linux with Active Directory using realmd \
run all commands as root 

```
#!/bin/bash

# make sure server isn't joined already
realm leave

# remove packages in order to start fresh
yum remove chrony ntp ntpdate krb5-workstation realmd oddjob oddjob-mkhomedir sssd samba-common-tools libsss_simpleifp sssd-tools dconf adcli -y

# install packages
yum install chrony ntp ntpdate krb5-workstation realmd oddjob oddjob-mkhomedir sssd samba-common-tools libsss_simpleifp sssd-tools dconf adcli -y

# sync ntp for kerberos
echo "syncing ntp with chrony"
systemctl enable chronyd
systemctl stop chronyd
# remove lines containing original server IPs
sed -i '/^server/d' /etc/chrony.conf
# add new server IPs to chrony config file
echo -e "server [NTP-SERVER-IP] iburst maxpoll 10\nserver [NTP-SERVER-IP2] iburst maxpoll 10\n$(cat /etc/chrony.conf)" > /etc/chrony.conf
systemctl start chronyd

echo "disabling selinux"
setenforce 0

echo "whitelisting firewall ports"
systemctl start firewalld
#ntp
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 123/udp

#dns
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 53/tcp
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 53/udp

#ldap
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 389/tcp
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 389/udp

#kerberos
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 88/udp
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 88/tcp

#kerberos
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 464/udp
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 464/tcp

#ldap global catalog
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 3268/tcp

# stop firewall
echo "stopping firewall"
systemctl stop firewalld

# allow sssd to authenticate
echo "editing pam"
authconfig --update --enablesssd --enablesssdauth --disableldap --disableldapauth --disablekrb5

# join domain
echo "joining domain"
realm join -U [USERNAME.FQDN]

# edit sssd file to remove requirement for fully qualified names
sed -i '/^use_fully_qualified/d' /etc/sssd/sssd.conf
echo -e "use_fully_qualified_names = False" >> /etc/sssd/sssd.conf

# permit user login
echo "permitting user login"
realm permit --all

# verify
echo "verifying domain"
realm list
echo ""
echo ""
id [DOMAIN]\\[DOMAIN-USERNAME]
echo ""
echo ""
id [DOMAIN]\\[DOMAIN-USERNAME2]

echo "giving sudo access to sysadmin users in domain"
echo "%[FQDN-OF-DOMAIN]\\\\[AD-GROUP-NAME] ALL=(ALL) ALL" >> /etc/sudoers

# get ip of local host and try to ssh in with ad account
echo "sshing in as domain user"

ssh -l [DOMAIN]\\[DOMAIN-USERNAME] localhost

exit 0
```

Commit message:

Add syntax highlighting & clarify ssh ldap auth info

directory-services.md, after:

## ACTIVE DIRECTORY

### `ldapsearch` command

`ldapsearch -LLL -x -w [password] -H ldaps://[servername].[domain] -D "[authenticating-user].[domain]" "mail=[user-email]"`

#### ssh key authentication

the below script is referenced in `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` at the line `AuthorizedKeysCommand` \
the script attempts to authenticate users using a public key stored in the `comment` field of their ldap user account attributes

```bash
#!/bin/bash
USER=$(echo "$1" | cut -f 1 -d "@")
PASS=$(cat ./passwordfile)

ldapsearch -u -LLL -x -w $PASS \
-D "ldapsearch.svc@[DOMAIN]" \
-H "ldaps://[DOMAIN-CONTROLLER-NAME].[DOMAIN]" \
'(sAMAccountName='"$USER"')' 'comment' \
| sed -n '/^ /{H;d};/comment:/x;$g;s/\n *//g;s/comment: //gp'
```
---
### integration

https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/html-single/windows_integration_guide/#sssd-ad-proc 


`net ads testjoin` 
`net ads info`
`net ads status`

`kinit`

**integrate Linux with Active Directory using `realmd`** \
run all commands as root 

```bash
#!/bin/bash

# make sure server isn't joined already
realm leave

# remove packages in order to start fresh
yum remove chrony ntp ntpdate krb5-workstation realmd oddjob oddjob-mkhomedir sssd samba-common-tools libsss_simpleifp sssd-tools dconf adcli -y

# install packages
yum install chrony ntp ntpdate krb5-workstation realmd oddjob oddjob-mkhomedir sssd samba-common-tools libsss_simpleifp sssd-tools dconf adcli -y

# sync ntp for kerberos
echo "syncing ntp with chrony"
systemctl enable chronyd
systemctl stop chronyd
# remove lines containing original server IPs
sed -i '/^server/d' /etc/chrony.conf
# add new server IPs to chrony config file
echo -e "server [NTP-SERVER-IP] iburst maxpoll 10\nserver [NTP-SERVER-IP2] iburst maxpoll 10\n$(cat /etc/chrony.conf)" > /etc/chrony.conf
systemctl start chronyd

echo "disabling selinux"
setenforce 0

echo "whitelisting firewall ports"
systemctl start firewalld
#ntp
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 123/udp

#dns
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 53/tcp
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 53/udp

#ldap
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 389/tcp
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 389/udp

#kerberos
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 88/udp
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 88/tcp

#kerberos
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 464/udp
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 464/tcp

#ldap global catalog
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port 3268/tcp

# stop firewall
echo "stopping firewall"
systemctl stop firewalld

# allow sssd to authenticate
echo "editing pam"
authconfig --update --enablesssd --enablesssdauth --disableldap --disableldapauth --disablekrb5

# join domain
echo "joining domain"
realm join -U [USERNAME.FQDN]

# edit sssd file to remove requirement for fully qualified names
sed -i '/^use_fully_qualified/d' /etc/sssd/sssd.conf
echo -e "use_fully_qualified_names = False" >> /etc/sssd/sssd.conf

# permit user login
echo "permitting user login"
realm permit --all

# verify
echo "verifying domain"
realm list
echo ""
echo ""
id [DOMAIN]\\[DOMAIN-USERNAME]
echo ""
echo ""
id [DOMAIN]\\[DOMAIN-USERNAME2]

echo "giving sudo access to sysadmin users in domain"
echo "%[FQDN-OF-DOMAIN]\\\\[AD-GROUP-NAME] ALL=(ALL) ALL" >> /etc/sudoers

# get ip of local host and try to ssh in with ad account
echo "sshing in as domain user"

ssh -l [DOMAIN]\\[DOMAIN-USERNAME] localhost

exit 0
```
