filesystems.md, before:


## FILESYSTEMS

### ext4

- `mkfs.ext4 /dev/mapper/LV1` or `mkfs -t ext4 /dev/mapper/LV1` = Create ext4 filesystem on logical volume *LV1*.
<br><br>
- `e2fsck -f /dev/mapper/LV1 && resize2fs /dev/mapper/LV1` = Expand filesystem to fit size of *LV1* (must be unmounted).
- `e4degrag /`     = Defragment all partitions.
- `fsck /dev/sda2` = Check *sda2* for errors.

### XFS

- `xfs_growfs /dev/centos/var` = Expand mounted XFS filesystem (must be mounted).

> NOTE: XFS filesystems cannot be shrunk.

#### [ext4 vs XFS](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/467385/should-i-use-xfs-or-ext4)

> ext4 is better with lots of smaller files and metadata-intensive tasks.
> Xfs is better with very large files (>30GB).


| Filesystem features <sup>[1]</sup> | ext4 | XFS  | BtrFS | ZFS  | UFS2 | F2FS | NTFS | bcachefs | FAT32 | exFAT |
|------------------------------------|------|------|-------|------|------|------|------|----------|-------|-------|
| Online/offline growing             | yes  |online| yes   |online| yes  |offline| yes | ?        | no    | no    |
| Online/offline shrinking          |offline| no   | yes   | no   | no   | no   |  yes | ?        | no    | no    |
| Transparent compression            | no   | no   | yes   | yes  | ?    | yes  | yes  | yes      | no    | no    |
| Encryption                         | LUKS | LUKS | yes   | yes  | ?    | yes  | yes  | yes      | no    | no    |
| Data deduplication                 | no   | no   | yes   | yes  | no   | no   | yes  | yes      | no    | no    |
| Snapshots                          | LVM  | LVM  | yes   | yes  | ?    | no   | no   | yes      | no    | no    |
| Block + metadata checksums         | no   | no   | yes   | yes  | no   | no   | no   | yes      | no    | no    |
| Block + metadata journaling        | yes  | yes  | CoW   | CoW |metadata|CoW |metadata| CoW     | no    | no    |
| RAID                               | LVM  | LVM  | yes   | yes  | no   |      | yes  | yes      | no    | no    |
| File change log                    | no   | yes  | no    | no   | no   | no   | yes  | no       | no    | no    |
| Maximum file size                  | -    | -    | -     | -    | -    | -    | -    | -        | 4GB   | -     |
| Maximum filesystem size            | -    | -    | -     | -    | -    | -    |2TB(Windows)| -  | -     | -     |

- LUKS = Encrypting these filesystems is usually handled through LUKS and/or dm-crypt.
- LVM  = This feature is traditionally provided through LVM.
- CoW  = Journaling is superceded by copy-on-write mechanisms.
- \-   = Maximum theoretical size is large enough to be irrelevant.
- ?    = Currently unknown and/or no reliable data available.

[1]: https://www.tldp.org/LDP/sag/html/filesystems.html

Commit message:

Add btrfs section to filesystems.md

filesystems.md, after:


## FILESYSTEMS

### Btrfs

- `btrfs -v filesystem defrag -r -czstd /` = Recursively compress filesystem with zstd.

### ext4

- `mkfs.ext4 /dev/mapper/LV1` or `mkfs -t ext4 /dev/mapper/LV1` = Create ext4 filesystem on logical volume *LV1*.
<br><br>
- `e2fsck -f /dev/mapper/LV1 && resize2fs /dev/mapper/LV1` = Expand filesystem to fit size of *LV1* (must be unmounted).
- `e4degrag /`     = Defragment all partitions.
- `fsck /dev/sda2` = Check *sda2* for errors.

### XFS

- `xfs_growfs /dev/centos/var` = Expand mounted XFS filesystem (must be mounted).
 
> NOTE: XFS filesystems cannot be shrunk.

#### [ext4 vs XFS](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/467385/should-i-use-xfs-or-ext4)

> ext4 is faster on single-threaded IO and when working with many small files.
> XFS is faster on multi-threaded IO, performs better with large files (>100MB).


| Filesystem features <sup>[1]</sup> | ext4 | XFS  | Btrfs | ZFS  | UFS2 | F2FS | NTFS | bcachefs | FAT32 | exFAT |
|------------------------------------|------|------|-------|------|------|------|------|----------|-------|-------|
| Online/offline growing             | yes  |online| yes   |online| yes  |offline| yes | ?        | no    | no    |
| Online/offline shrinking          |offline| no   | yes   | no   | no   | no   |  yes | ?        | no    | no    |
| Transparent compression            | no   | no   | yes   | yes  | ?    | yes  | yes  | yes      | no    | no    |
| Encryption                         | LUKS | LUKS | yes   | yes  | ?    | yes  | yes  | yes      | no    | no    |
| Data deduplication                 | no   | no   | yes   | yes  | no   | no   | yes  | yes      | no    | no    |
| Snapshots                          | LVM  | LVM  | yes   | yes  | ?    | no   | no   | yes      | no    | no    |
| Block + metadata checksums         | no   | no   | yes   | yes  | no   | no   | no   | yes      | no    | no    |
| Block + metadata journaling        | yes  | yes  | CoW   | CoW |metadata|CoW |metadata| CoW     | no    | no    |
| RAID                               | LVM  | LVM  | yes   | yes  | no   |      | yes  | yes      | no    | no    |
| File change log                    | no   | yes  | no    | no   | no   | no   | yes  | no       | no    | no    |
| Maximum file size                  | -    | -    | -     | -    | -    | -    | -    | -        | 4GB   | -     |
| Maximum filesystem size            | -    | -    | -     | -    | -    | -    |2TB(Windows)| -  | -     | -     |

- LUKS = Encrypting these filesystems is usually handled through LUKS and/or dm-crypt.
- LVM  = This feature is traditionally provided through LVM.
- CoW  = Journaling is superceded by copy-on-write mechanisms.
- \-   = Maximum theoretical size is large enough to be irrelevant.
- ?    = Currently unknown and/or no reliable data available.

[1]: https://www.tldp.org/LDP/sag/html/filesystems.html
