git.md, before:


## GIT
[1]

**see also:** [github fundamentals](https://git-scm.com/docs), [github branching best-practices](https://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/)

`git add -A` = stage all modified files, including deleted files  
`git add -u` = stage all modified files  

### setup

*configuring user information used across all local repositories*   
`git config --global user.name “[firstname lastname]”` = set a name that is identifiable for credit when review version history  
`git config --global user.email “[valid-email]”`       = set an email address that will be associated with each history marker  
`git config --global color.ui auto`                    = set automatic command line coloring for git for easy reviewing

---
### init

*configuring user information, initializing and cloning repositories*  
`git init`        = initialize an existing directory as a git repository  
`git clone [url]` = retrieve an entire repository from a hosted location via url

---
### staging

*reverting changes*  
`git checkout [commit hash] -- ./file1 ../file2` = revert file1 and file2 to the specified commit  
`git checkout -- [file]`                         = undo changes made to an unstaged file

*working with snapshots and the staging area*  
`git status`                = show modified files in working directory, staged for your next commit  
`git add [file]`            = add a file as it looks now to your next commit (stage)  
`git reset [file]`          = unstage a file while retaining the changes in working directory  

`git diff`                  = diff of what is changed but not staged  
`git diff --staged`         = diff of what is staged but not yet commited  
`git commit -m “[message]”` = commit your staged content as a new commit snapshot

---
### branches

*isolating work in branches, changing context, and integrating changes*  
`git branch`                 = list your branches. a `*` will appear next to the currently active branch  
`git branch [branch-name]`   = create a new branch at the current commit  
`git checkout [branch-name]` = switch to another branch and check it out into your working directory  
`git merge [branch-name]`    = merge the specified branch’s history into the current one  
`git log`                    = show all commits in the current branch’s history

---
### history

*examining logs, diffs and object information*  
`git log`                    = show the commit history for the currently active branch  
`git log branchB..branchA`   = show the commits on branchA that are not on branchB  
`git log --follow [file]`    = show the commits that changed file, even across renames  

`git diff branchB...branchA` = show the diff of what is in branchA that is not in branchB  
`git show [commit-hash]`     = show any object in git in human-readable format  
`git checkout [commit-hash]` = checkout the repository at the specified commit

---
### tracking path changes

*versioning file removes and path changes*  
`git rm [file]`                    = delete the file from project and stage the removal for commit  
`git mv [current-path] [new-path]` = change an existing file path and stage the move  
`git log --stat -M`                = show all commit logs with indication of any paths that moved

---
### ignoring patterns

*preventing unintentional staging or commiting of files*  
```
logs/
*.notes
pattern*/
```
*save a file with desired paterns as .gitignore with either direct string matches or wildcard globs*  
`git config --global core.excludesfile [file]` = system wide ignore patern for all local repositories

---
### remotes

*retrieving updates from another repository and updating local repos*  
`git remove -v`                = show remote repo info  
`git remote add [alias] [url]` = add a git url as an alias  
`git fetch [alias]`            = fetch down all the branches from that git remote  
`git merge [alias]/[branch]`   = merge a remote branch into your current branch to bring it up to date  

`git push [alias] [branch]`    = transmit local branch commits to the remote repository branch  
`git pull`                     = fetch and merge any commits from the tracking remote branch

---
### rewriting history

*rewriting branches, updating commits and clearing history*  
`git rebase [branch]`       = apply any commits of current branch ahead of specified one  
`git reset --hard [commit]` = clear staging area, rewrite working tree from specified commit

---
### stashing

*temporarily store modified, tracked files in order to change branches*  
`git stash`      = save modified and staged changes  
`git stash list` = list stack-order of stashed file changes  
`git stash pop`  = write working from top of stash stack  
`git stash drop` = discard the changes from top of stash stack

[1]: https://education.github.com/git-cheat-sheet-education.pdf

Commit message:

Add info on tags, improve wording in git.md

git.md, after:


## GIT
[1]

**see also:** [github fundamentals](https://git-scm.com/docs), [github branching best-practices](https://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/)

`git add -A` = stage all modified files, including deleted files  
`git add -u` = stage all modified files  

---
### tags

**further reading:** [git basics - tagging](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Basics-Tagging)

*tag specific commits to release your software*  
`git tag v0.1`           = tag the current commit as version 0.1  
`git push origin --tags` = push tags  

---
### setup

*configuring user information used across all local repositories*   
`git config --global user.name “[firstname lastname]”` = set a name that is identifiable for credit when review version history  
`git config --global user.email “[valid-email]”`       = set an email address that will be associated with each history marker  
`git config --global color.ui auto`                    = set automatic command line coloring for git for easy reviewing

---
### init

*configuring user information, initializing and cloning repositories*  
`git init`        = initialize an existing directory as a git repository  
`git clone [url]` = retrieve an entire repository from a hosted location via url

---
### staging

*reverting changes*  
`git checkout [commit hash] -- ./file1 ../file2` = revert file1 and file2 to the specified commit  
`git checkout -- [file]`                         = undo changes made to an unstaged file

*working with snapshots and the staging area*  
`git status`                = show modified files in working directory, staged for your next commit  
`git add [file]`            = add a file as it looks now to your next commit (stage)  
`git reset [file]`          = unstage a file while retaining the changes in working directory  

`git diff`                  = diff of what is changed but not staged  
`git diff --staged`         = diff of what is staged but not yet commited  
`git commit -m '[message]'` = commit your staged content as a new commit snapshot

---
### branches

*isolating work in branches, changing context, and integrating changes*  
`git branch`                 = list your branches, a `*` will appear next to the currently active branch  
`git branch [branch-name]`   = create a new branch at the current commit  
`git checkout [branch-name]` = switch to another branch and check it out into your working directory  
`git merge [branch-name]`    = merge the specified branch into the current one  

---
### history

*examining logs, diffs and object information*  
`git log`                    = show the commit history for the active branch  
`git log branchB..branchA`   = show the commits on branchA that are not on branchB  
`git log --follow [file]`    = show the commits that changed file, even across renames  

`git diff branchB...branchA` = show the diff of what is in branchA that is not in branchB  
`git show [commit-hash]`     = show any object in git in human-readable format  
`git checkout [commit-hash]` = checkout the repository at the specified commit

---
### tracking path changes

*versioning file removes and path changes*  
`git rm [file]`                    = delete the file from project and stage the removal for commit  
`git mv [current-path] [new-path]` = change an existing file path and stage the move  
`git log --stat -M`                = show all commit logs with indication of any paths that moved

---
### ignoring patterns

*preventing unintentional staging or commiting of files*  
.gitignore:
```
logs/
*.notes
pattern*/
```
*save a file with desired paterns as .gitignore with either direct string matches or wildcard globs*  
`git config --global core.excludesfile [file]` = system wide ignore patern for all local repositories

---
### remotes

*retrieving updates from another repository and updating local repos*  
`git remote -v`                = show remote repo info  
`git remote add [alias] [url]` = add a git url as an alias  
`git fetch [alias]`            = fetch down all the branches from that git remote  
`git merge [alias]/[branch]`   = merge a remote branch into your current branch to bring it up to date  

`git push [alias] [branch]`    = transmit local branch commits to the remote repository branch  
`git pull`                     = fetch and merge any commits from the tracking remote branch

---
### rewriting history

*rewriting branches, updating commits and clearing history*  
`git rebase [branch]`       = apply any commits of current branch ahead of specified one  
`git reset --hard [commit]` = clear staging area, rewrite working tree from specified commit

---
### stashing

*temporarily store modified, tracked files in order to change branches*  
`git stash`      = save modified and staged changes  
`git stash list` = list stack-order of stashed file changes  
`git stash pop`  = write working from top of stash stack  
`git stash drop` = discard the changes from top of stash stack

[1]: https://education.github.com/git-cheat-sheet-education.pdf
