helm.md, before:


- [Helm configuration for a GitLab runner:](https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/install/kubernetes.html)
```bash
# Create namespace for gitlab.
kubectl create namespace gitlab
# To add 2 runner pods to the cluster:
helm upgrade --install --namespace gitlab gitlab-runner -f values.yml gitlab/gitlab-runner
helm upgrade --install --namespace gitlab gitlab-runner2 -f values.yml gitlab/gitlab-runner
```
```yaml
gitlabUrl: http://gitlab.example.com
runnerRegistrationToken: "PUT_REGISTRATION_TOKEN_HERE"

# Enable RBAC
# https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/install/kubernetes.html#enabling-rbac-support
# https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/25135
rbac:
  create: true
  serviceAccountName: gitlab-runner

# Runner name
name: eks

check_interval: 0

# [session_server]
#   session_timeout = 1800

runners:
  config: |
    [[runners]]
    name = "eks"
    url = "http://gitlab.example.com"
    token = "PUT_REGISTRATION_TOKEN_HERE"
    executor = "docker"
    environment = ["DOCKER_AUTH_CONFIG={ \"credsStore\": \"ecr-login\" }"]

    [runners.custom_build_dir]
    [runners.cache]
    [runners.cache.s3]
    [runners.cache.gcs]
    [runners.cache.azure]

    [runners.docker]
    tls_verify = false
    # pull_policy = "if-not-present"
    image = "docker:20.10.12"
    dns = ["8.8.8.8"]
    privileged = false
    disable_entrypoint_overwrite = false
    oom_kill_disable = false
    disable_cache = false
    volumes = ["/cache", "/var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock"]
    shm_size = 0
 ```

Commit message:

helm: update gitlab runner example to use k8s executor

helm.md, after:


- [Helm configuration for a GitLab runner:](https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/install/kubernetes.html)
```bash
# Create namespace for gitlab.
kubectl create namespace gitlab
# Create a runner pod for the cluster:
helm upgrade --install --namespace gitlab gitlab-runner -f values.yml gitlab/gitlab-runner
```
- The runner pod will listen for pipelines, then create a pod in the cluster to run each job in the pipeline.
  - A single kubernetes runner can handle multiple submitted pipelines in parallel
- See [here](https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/executors/kubernetes.html) for more info.
```yaml
gitlabUrl: http://gitlab.example.com
runnerRegistrationToken: "PUT_REGISTRATION_TOKEN_HERE"

# Enable RBAC
# https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/install/kubernetes.html#enabling-rbac-support
# https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/25135
rbac:
  create: true
  serviceAccountName: gitlab-runner

check_interval: 0
concurrent: 2  # At most this runner can dispatch 2 pipelines at once.

runners:
  name: eks_runner  # Name of the runner when it registers with GitLab.
  runUntagged: false  # Force the runner to only accept tagged jobs.
  tags: "EKS"

  config: |
    [[runners]]
    name = "eks"
    url = "http://gitlab.example.com"
    token = "PUT_REGISTRATION_TOKEN_HERE"
    executor = "kubernetes"

    [runners.kubernetes]                                                                                                                                                   
    namespace = "gitlab"
    [runners.kubernetes.dns_config]
#   vvv Set to override DNS configuration.
    nameservers = ["10.0.0.2"]  
 ```
