packages.md, before:


## PACKAGES

| action                               | yum/dnf                        | apt                         | pacman             |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------ | --------------------------- | ------------------ |
| update packages                      | `yum update`                   | `apt update && apt upgrade` | `pacman -Syu`      |
| show installed packages              | `rpm -qa`                      | `dpkg --list`               | `pacman -Q`        |
| show package that provides file x    | `yum whatprovides x`           | `dpkg -S x`                 | `pacman -Ql x`     |
| get package x info                   | `yum info x`                   | `apt-cache show x`          | `pacman -Qi x`     |
| install package group x              | `yum groupinstall x`           | -                           | `pacman -S x`      |
| show package groups                  | `yum group list`               | -                           | `pacman -Qg`       |
| remove duplicate packages            | `package-cleanup --cleandupes` | -                           | -                  |
| remove orphaned packages             | -                              | `apt autoremove`            | `pacman -Ru`       |

#### rpm

`rpm -ivh file.rpm` or `yum install ./file.rpm` = install .rpm file as package \
`-i` install .rpm \
`-v` verbose \
`-h` use hash marks to display progress

#### tarballs

`tar xzvf file.tar.gz` = extract archive into current path (*xtract ze v'ing files*) \
`x` extract tar archive \
`z` use `gzip` (only works with `tar.gz` or `.tgz` tarballs) \
`v` verbose \
`f` extract files


## REPOSITORIES

| action                  | yum/dnf               | apt                                      | pacman                    |
| ----------------------- | --------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------- |
| show installed repos    | `yum repolist`        | [view `/etc/apt.sources.list`]           | [view `/etc/pacman.conf`] |
| show available repos    | `yum repolist all`    | [view `/etc/apt.sources.list`]           | -                         |
| add repo x              | `yum --enablerepo=x`  | `add-apt-repository x`                   | [edit `/etc/pacman.conf`] |
| add third-party repo    | -                     | `add-apt-repository ppa:libreoffice/ppa` | -                         |

### yum/dnf & rpm

`yum install epel-release` = install EPEL repo

---
#### add iso repo to centos
1. go to centos.org
1. click 'get centos now'
1. click 'alternative downloads'
1. click 'i386' in the row corresponding to centos version 6
1. click any mirror link
1. click the iso you wish to download. It will likely be the largest one. Don't download the torrent.
1. save it anywhere
1. launch the UPT_Dev VM and in the top-left corner of VMWare, click VM -> Removable Devices -> CD/DVD -> Conenct
1. navigate to the iso image file you downloaded
1. inside the UPT_Dev VM, run 'sudo mount -o /dev/cdrom /[mount location]'
1. the disk is now mounted and you can browse the packages
1. to turn the packages into a full repo, you need to add the disk ID to the yum configuration. you can do that as follows:
1. run 'head -1 /[mount location]/.discinfo'
1. copy that number
1. run your favorite text editor to open /etc/yum.repos.d/CentOS-Base.repo
1. for each repo you'd like to add, next to 'mediaid=' , enter the number you copied
1. next to 'baseurl=', enter the path of the mounted disk. For example, if you mounted the disk on /test, the row would read 'baseurl=file:///test'
1. run 'yum clean all'
1. yum should now recognize the disk as a repository

Commit message:

Add package rollback commands to table

packages.md, after:


## PACKAGES

| action                               | yum/dnf                             | apt                           | pacman               |
| ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | -------------------- |
| update packages                      | `yum update`                        | `apt update && apt upgrade`   | `pacman -Syu`        |
| show installed packages              | `rpm -qa`                           | `dpkg --list`                 | `pacman -Q`          |
| show package that provides file x    | `yum whatprovides x`                | `dpkg -S x`                   | `pacman -Ql x`       |
| get package x info                   | `yum info x`                        | `apt-cache show x`            | `pacman -Qi x`       |
| install package group x              | `yum groupinstall x`                | -                             | `pacman -S x`        |
| show package groups                  | `yum group list`                    | -                             | `pacman -Qg`         |
| remove duplicate packages            | `package-cleanup --cleandupes`      | -                             | -                    |
| remove orphaned packages             | -                                   | `apt autoremove`              | `pacman -Ru`         |
| show update history                  | `yum history list all`  | [view `/var/log/apt/history.log`] | [view `/var/log/pacman.log`] |
| rollback update|`yum history undo [transaction-id]`|`apt-history rollback`|`pacman -U /var/cache/pacman/pkg/[old-package-version]`|

#### rpm

`rpm -ivh file.rpm` or `yum install ./file.rpm` = install .rpm file as package \
`-i` install .rpm \
`-v` verbose \
`-h` use hash marks to display progress

#### tarballs

`tar xzvf file.tar.gz` = extract archive into current path (*xtract ze v'ing files*) \
`x` extract tar archive \
`z` use `gzip` (only works with `tar.gz` or `.tgz` tarballs) \
`v` verbose \
`f` extract files


## REPOSITORIES

| action                  | yum/dnf               | apt                                      | pacman                    |
| ----------------------- | --------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------- |
| show installed repos    | `yum repolist`        | [view `/etc/apt.sources.list`]           | [view `/etc/pacman.conf`] |
| show available repos    | `yum repolist all`    | [view `/etc/apt.sources.list`]           | -                         |
| add repo x              | `yum --enablerepo=x`  | `add-apt-repository x`                   | [edit `/etc/pacman.conf`] |
| add third-party repo    | -                     | `add-apt-repository ppa:libreoffice/ppa` | -                         |

### yum/dnf & rpm

`yum install epel-release` = install EPEL repo

---
#### add iso repo to centos
1. go to centos.org
1. click 'get centos now'
1. click 'alternative downloads'
1. click 'i386' in the row corresponding to centos version 6
1. click any mirror link
1. click the `.iso` you wish to download. It will likely be the largest one. Don't download the torrent.
1. save it anywhere
1. launch the VM and in the top-left corner of VMWare, click VM -> Removable Devices -> CD/DVD -> Conenct
1. navigate to the `.iso` image file you downloaded
1. inside the VM, run `sudo mount /dev/cdrom /[mount-location]`
1. the disk is now mounted and you can browse the packages
1. to turn the packages into a full repo, you need to add the disk ID to the yum configuration. you can do that as follows:
1. run `head -1 /[mount-location]/.discinfo`
1. copy that number
1. run your favorite text editor to open `/etc/yum.repos.d/CentOS-Base.repo`
1. for each repo you'd like to add, next to `mediaid=` , enter the number you copied
1. next to `baseurl=`, enter the path of the mounted disk. For example, if you mounted the disk on `/mnt`, the row would read `baseurl=file:///mnt`
1. run `yum clean all`
1. yum should now recognize the disk as a repository
