security.md, before:


## CERTIFICATES

generate self-signed cert
```
certtool --generate-privkey --outfile key.pem
certtool --generate-self-signed --load-privkey key.pem --outfile cert.pem
```

---
## FIPS

`cat /proc/sys/crypto/fips_enabled` = check if fips is enabled 

---
## GPG

#### digitally sign and verify a file

(assumes recipient does not yet have sender's public key)  
on sender:  
1. `gpg --gen-key`                                  = create public and private key pair
2. `gpg --output file.sig --detatch-sign file.txt`  = sign file.txt with private key, producing the signature file file.sig
3. `gpg --export --armor "pubkey.gpg" > public.asc` = export binary public key to ASCII-encoded string
4. transfer `file.sig`, `file.txt`, and `public.asc` to recipient

on recipient:  
1. `gpg --import public.asc`                        = import sender's public key
2. `gpg --verify file.sig file.txt`                 = verify the file.sig signature of file.txt using sender's public key

#### asymetrically encrypt/decrypt and sign a file [3, 4]

on sender:  
1. `gpg --encrypt --sign --armor --recipient receiver@gmail.com file.txt` = encrpyt file.txt using receiver's public key (assuming it's in the gpg keychain), then sign file.txt using your private key
2. this produces the encrypted and signed file `file.txt.asc`

on receiver:  
1. `gpg --decrypt file.txt.asc > file.txt` = decrypt file using receiver's private key and verify sender's signature

#### symmetrically encrypt/decrypt a file [2]

1. `gpg --output file.gpg --symmetric file.txt` = encrypt file.txt into file.gpg using a password that must be provided  
2. `gpg --decrypt file.gpg`                     = decrypt file.gpg into file.txt using the same password used to encrypt file.txt

---
## PAM

`authconfig --disablesssdauth --update` = remove pam sssd module

#### /etc/pam.d/ syntax

---
## SELINUX

`semanage port –a –t ssh_port_t tcp 9999` = set ssh context to allow use of port 9999

selinux context syntax: `user:role:type:level`  
`ls -Z` = view selinux contexts

`chcon -R [context] file.txt` = change selinux context  
`-R`                          = recursive

`sestatus -v` = display general selinux config  
`-v`          = verbose

`setenforce 1` = enable selinux enforcement (`1` for on, `0` for off)  
`fixfiles`     = check security context database

`restorecon -F ./file.txt` = restore selinux context to specified file or directory  
`-F`                       = force

`getsebool`                              = get selinux boolean values  
`setsebool`                              = toggle selinux boolean values  
`setsebool httpd_can_network_connect on` = allow outside directory access to httpd

---
#### `audit2allow` command [1]

`audit2allow -w -a` or `audit2why -a` = generate a list of policies triggering selinux denials  
`audit2allow -a -M [policy]` = create an selinux module that would fix the current policy denial (see below)

`semodule -l` = list all current selinux modules

``` [1]
~]# audit2allow -w -a

type=AVC msg=audit(1226270358.848:238): avc:  denied  { write }
for pid=13349 comm="certwatch" name="cache" dev=dm-0 ino=218171
scontext=system_u:system_r:certwatch_t:s0
tcontext=system_u:object_r:var_t:s0 tclass=dir
	Was caused by:
		Missing type enforcement (TE) allow rule.

	You can use audit2allow to generate a loadable module to
  allow this access.
```  
```
~]# audit2allow -a -M mycertwatch

******************** IMPORTANT ***********************
To make this policy package active, execute:

semodule -i mycertwatch.pp
```

selinux denial log example in `/var/log/messages`:
```
Dec 16 16:28:22 [hostname] kernel: type=1400 audit(1576531702.010:97659712): avc:  denied  { getattr }
for pid=28583 comm="pidof" path="/usr/bin/su" dev="dm-0" ino=50444389
scontext=system_u:system_r:keepalived_t:s0 tcontext=system_u:object_r:su_exec_t:s0 tclass=file permissive=0
```

#### interesting links

https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Paperkey  
https://www.jabberwocky.com/software/paperkey/  
https://www.saminiir.com/paper-storage-and-recovery-of-gpg-keys/#fn:png-correction


#### sources

[1] https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/6/html/security-enhanced_linux/sect-security-enhanced_linux-fixing_problems-allowing_access_audit2allow  
[2] https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36393922/how-to-decrypt-a-symmetrically-encrypted-openpgp-message-using-php  
[3] https://www.networkworld.com/article/3293052/encypting-your-files-with-gpg.html  
[4] https://www.howtogeek.com/427982/how-to-encrypt-and-decrypt-files-with-gpg-on-linux/

Commit message:

Add further reading section to gpg

security.md, after:


## CERTIFICATES

generate self-signed cert
```
certtool --generate-privkey --outfile key.pem
certtool --generate-self-signed --load-privkey key.pem --outfile cert.pem
```

---
## FIPS

`cat /proc/sys/crypto/fips_enabled` = check if fips is enabled 

---
## GPG

#### digitally sign and verify a file

(assumes recipient does not yet have sender's public key)  
on sender:  
1. `gpg --gen-key`                                  = create public and private key pair
2. `gpg --output file.sig --detatch-sign file.txt`  = sign file.txt with private key, producing the signature file file.sig
3. `gpg --export --armor "pubkey.gpg" > public.asc` = export binary public key to ASCII-encoded string
4. transfer `file.sig`, `file.txt`, and `public.asc` to recipient

on recipient:  
1. `gpg --import public.asc`                        = import sender's public key
2. `gpg --verify file.sig file.txt`                 = verify the file.sig signature of file.txt using sender's public key

#### asymetrically encrypt/decrypt and sign a file [3, 4]

on sender:  
1. `gpg --encrypt --sign --armor --recipient receiver@gmail.com file.txt` = encrpyt file.txt using receiver's public key (assuming it's in the gpg keychain), then sign file.txt using your private key
2. this produces the encrypted and signed file `file.txt.asc`

on receiver:  
1. `gpg --decrypt file.txt.asc > file.txt` = decrypt file using receiver's private key and verify sender's signature

#### symmetrically encrypt/decrypt a file [2]

1. `gpg --output file.gpg --symmetric file.txt` = encrypt file.txt into file.gpg using a password that must be provided  
2. `gpg --decrypt file.gpg`                     = decrypt file.gpg into file.txt using the same password used to encrypt file.txt

#### further reading

The GNU Privacy Handbook https://www.gnupg.org/gph/en/manual/book1.html  
Backing up private keys on paper https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Paperkey, https://www.jabberwocky.com/software/paperkey/, https://www.saminiir.com/paper-storage-and-recovery-of-gpg-keys/

---
## PAM

`authconfig --disablesssdauth --update` = remove pam sssd module

#### /etc/pam.d/ syntax

---
## SELINUX

`semanage port –a –t ssh_port_t tcp 9999` = set ssh context to allow use of port 9999

selinux context syntax: `user:role:type:level`  
`ls -Z` = view selinux contexts

`chcon -R [context] file.txt` = change selinux context  
`-R`                          = recursive

`sestatus -v` = display general selinux config  
`-v`          = verbose

`setenforce 1` = enable selinux enforcement (`1` for on, `0` for off)  
`fixfiles`     = check security context database

`restorecon -F ./file.txt` = restore selinux context to specified file or directory  
`-F`                       = force

`getsebool`                              = get selinux boolean values  
`setsebool`                              = toggle selinux boolean values  
`setsebool httpd_can_network_connect on` = allow outside directory access to httpd

---
#### `audit2allow` command [1]

`audit2allow -w -a` or `audit2why -a` = generate a list of policies triggering selinux denials  
`audit2allow -a -M [policy]` = create an selinux module that would fix the current policy denial (see below)

`semodule -l` = list all current selinux modules

``` [1]
~]# audit2allow -w -a

type=AVC msg=audit(1226270358.848:238): avc:  denied  { write }
for pid=13349 comm="certwatch" name="cache" dev=dm-0 ino=218171
scontext=system_u:system_r:certwatch_t:s0
tcontext=system_u:object_r:var_t:s0 tclass=dir
	Was caused by:
		Missing type enforcement (TE) allow rule.

	You can use audit2allow to generate a loadable module to
  allow this access.
```  
```
~]# audit2allow -a -M mycertwatch

******************** IMPORTANT ***********************
To make this policy package active, execute:

semodule -i mycertwatch.pp
```

selinux denial log example in `/var/log/messages`:
```
Dec 16 16:28:22 [hostname] kernel: type=1400 audit(1576531702.010:97659712): avc:  denied  { getattr }
for pid=28583 comm="pidof" path="/usr/bin/su" dev="dm-0" ino=50444389
scontext=system_u:system_r:keepalived_t:s0 tcontext=system_u:object_r:su_exec_t:s0 tclass=file permissive=0
```

#### sources

[1] https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/6/html/security-enhanced_linux/sect-security-enhanced_linux-fixing_problems-allowing_access_audit2allow  
[2] https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36393922/how-to-decrypt-a-symmetrically-encrypted-openpgp-message-using-php  
[3] https://www.networkworld.com/article/3293052/encypting-your-files-with-gpg.html  
[4] https://www.howtogeek.com/427982/how-to-encrypt-and-decrypt-files-with-gpg-on-linux/
